
A.Decantation
1. Measure 100 ml of distilled water and place it in a 150-ml beaker.
2. Weigh 1.0 gram of sand.Pour it into the beaker with water.
3. When the particles of the sand have settled, pour the liquid part into another 150-ml beaker. Set the supernatant liquid aside.
4. Repeat steps 1 to 3 but this time use 1.0 gram of powdered chalk.
5. Compare the clarity of the two supernatant liquids.
6. Waste Disposal: Put the sand and the powdered chalk in separate labeled containers.They can be dried and be used again. Dispose the supernatant liquids to the sink.

B.Filtration and Evaporation
1. Mix 1.0 gram of sodium chloride and 1.0 gram of powdered chalk in a 150-ml beaker.
2. Add 25-ml of distilled water to the mixture and stir for one-minute.
3. Filter the mixture (Filtration Setup). Use a 150-ml beaker as the container of the filtrate.Examine the color of the filtrate.
4. Transfer the filtrate onto an evaporating dish and evaporate the filtrate to dryness (Evaporation Setup). Note the color of the residue.
5. Waste Disposal: Put the filter paper with the chalk in the trash can.Dissolve the residue in the evaporating dish with tap water and dispose it to the sink.

C.Distillation
SAFETY PRECAUTION: Do not forget to add some glass beads to the mixture in the distilling flask.The glass beads promote even boiling of the liquid.
1. Prepare the distillation setup.
2. Place 50-ml distilled water in a 150-ml beaker.
3. Add 1.0 gram of blue dye to the water and stir.Note the color of the distillate.
4. Pour the solution into the distilling flask and heat it to boiling.
5. Continue boiling the solution gently until about 10-ml of the distillate has been collected.Use a 150-ml beaker as the container of the distillate.Note the color of the distillate.
6. Waste Disposal: Dispose the solution and the distillate to the sink with pleanty of water.
7. Repeat steps 1 to 5 but this time use 1 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide, NH4OH.
8. Add 3 drops of phenolphtalein to the distillate. Observe the color produced.
9. Waste Disposal: Place the solution and the distillate in the 150-ml beaker. Add dropwise 1.0M hydrochloric acid, HCl, until the color becomes very light pink.Dispose the neutralized solution to the sink with plenty of water.

D.Adsorption
1. Place 40 ml of distilled water in a 150-ml beaker.
2. Add 4 grams of brown sugar. Stir thoroughly to dissolve the sugar. Observe the color of the mixture.
3. Add 2 grams of powdered charcoal and stir.
4. Heat the mixture while stirring it continously until it boils.
5. Continue stirring and boiling the mixture for 5 minutes.
6. Filter the mixture after it cools down.Observe the color of the filtrate.
7. Waste Disposal: Put the filtrate paper with the charcoal in the trash can.Dispose the filtrate to the sink.

E.Sublimation
1. Boil 350 ml of tap water in a 400-ml beaker.
2. In a 150-ml beaker, mix 2.0 grams of powdered naphtalene and 0.5 grams of blue dye.
3. Half-fill another 400-ml beaker with ice.
4. Place the beaker containing the mixture of napthalene and blue dye on a water trough or a shallow dish.On top of the beaker with the mixture, put the beaker containing the ice (Sublimation Setup).
5. Pour the boiling water on the water trough or shallow dish.
6. Wait for 5 minutes.Observe the bottom of the beaker containing the ice.
7. Waste Disposal: Place the excess mixture in a labeled container.